---
weight: 4
title: "Background"
draft: false
---

## Background

The project goal of investigating the chain of vulnerabilities in popular OSS software drove us to research the three relevant sub-areas for literature review, specifically,

1. What are the metrics used in the previous study to evaluate the popularity of an OSS software?
1. What frameworks have been established to trace vulnerabilities through dependency analysis?
1. What vulnerability studies have been conducted specifically for npm ecosystem?

The very first task in our study is identifying popular packages. However, it is not trivial to decide which popularity metrics to consider since there are diverse criteria of popularity. As a case study, [Zerouali et al.](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Gregorio-Robles/publication/330382560_On_the_Diversity_of_Software_Package_Popularity_Metrics_An_Empirical_Study_of_npm/links/5c47ae82a6fdccd6b5c182c7/On-the-Diversity-of-Software-Package-Popularity-Metrics-An-Empirical-Study-of-npm.pdf) computed Spearman (&rho;) correlation factors between 9 different popularity metrics for a large dataset of 175K npm packages. Indeed, they found that many popularity metrics are not strongly correlated (&rho; = 0.57), which implies that the use of different metrics may produce different outcomes. This result clearly shows that the context of popularity should be considered when we select popularity metrics for a specific study.

One of the most important aspects of our research is understanding how to properly define vulnerable open source dependencies and how to use a precise, constructive and empirical approach to vulnerability measurement. The research by [Pashchenko at al.](https://www.researchgate.net/profile/Antonino-Sabetta/publication/328089558_Vulnerable_open_source_dependencies_counting_those_that_matter/links/5bd88e2da6fdcc3a8db16906/Vulnerable-open-source-dependencies-counting-those-that-matter.pdf) addresses this concern by considering source data not just from repositories, but also from analyzing build and testing information, patch updates, etc. The study emphasized a focus on OSS usage in industry, where 80% of average commercial project consists of OSS, and 20% of dependencies with known vulnerabilities are not deployed. The methodology and data used in this study is language-agnostic and only relies on availability of dependency management system, such as Maven (Java), PIP (Python), NPM (Javascript), etc. Their results apply not only to Maven but equally well for npm data. They considered 10,905 distinct GAV (group, artifact, version) data nodes. The results show that of all vulnerabilities found, a significant number (1 in 5) is never deployed to production. Regarding who is responsible for (and can potentially fix) the vulnerabilities, their study indicates that the source comes from direct and own dependencies, which are upon developers to actually fix the security issues. In addition, transitive dependencies with halted development have the highest cost associated with finding and fixing the vulnerabilities. These results from the study shows the importance of an accurate, methodical and empirical vulnerability measurement for OSS projects as well as to developers and companies.

The dependency across npm packages can be clearly illustrated in a simple graph. However, the characteristics of such framework was not well studied until [Zimmermann et al.](https://www.usenix.org/system/files/sec19-zimmermann.pdf) presented their research on the global property of the dependency graph in npm ecosystem and the relation with vulnerabilities. The result showed that the dependency across npm packages is increasing super-linearly with time, and the distribution of dependency number is nearly exponential. This result proved that highly popular packages have the dominate influence on npm ecosystem. They also discovered a moderate correlation between dependency and vulnerabilities. Because of such significant difference between popular packages and ordinary packages, we computed such correlation between the dependency and vulnerabilities within the realm of popular packages.

**Vulnerabilities spread between software packages through dependencies**. One of the vulnerability studies done in the npm ecosystem by [Decan et al.](https://dl.acm.org/doi/pdf/10.1145/3196398.3196401) surveyed 610K JavaScript packages to analyze how and when different vulnerabilities are discovered and fixed in the npm package dependency network, and to what extent do they affect other packages. The study reveals that **it takes more than 2 years to discover 50% of the vulnerabilities**, and an even longer time to discover low severity ones. In addition to the delay in detecting vulnerabilities, they concluded that **more than 33% of affected dependent packages are not updated even if an upstream fix is available** because of restrictive dependency constraints. We extended these aspects of their study by analyzing how vulnerable npm packages affect directly and indirectly dependent packages.
